we are back at 8:09 in this morning on
today's family when little boys want to
dress like little girls one mom's
decision to share her experience with
her son is receiving a lot of attention
we're going to talk to them both in just
a moment but first their story for
little Dyson now v this is part of his
everyday play but for his mom Cheryl
Sheila Davis it took some getting used
to my initial reaction was to redirect
play with the trucks or read certain
books when Dyson wanted to be a princess
for Halloween
Cheryl initially resisted but soon
changed her mind
my older son Coby said mom why can't you
just let him be happy and at that moment
I knew that this was more my issue
mr. Coby could be a ninja why couldn't
he different since then they've allowed
their youngest son to explore his
interest in all things dressy and
sparkly it's not contagious he's just
like okay like any other kid plays the
checkers he plays in the trees he just
likes to do it in a dress big deal he
likes pretty things
pink is his favorite color the
experience led Cheryl to self-publish a
book my princess boy which he wrote as a
tool to encourage acceptance of Dyson
and his dresses a store clerk once said
to me are you really going to buy that
for him and I said can you just read
this book for 60 seconds and after she
read it she apologized word spread their
story appeared on the local TV talk show
and in People magazine soon a major
publisher picked up my princess boy
which landed in bookstores across the
country just before Christmas I think
it's fantastic and I think that what it
tells us is that these boys their
parents and
social world is no longer the same there
is an audience for this book and there
are people who need this kind of
information and this kind of help I
haven't had that moment of regret yet
partly that I think is because of all of
the people who are emailing me from all
over the country and all over the
internationally as well who are saying
I'm so glad I'm not alone it's ironic
that I stand here before you today I
mean after all I am the woman in the
video I'm a mother I'm a wife I'm a
daughter I have my MBA I run my own
marketing company and yet I stand here
before you today to talk about the
evolution of the male image let's talk a
little bit about the video some of the
worldwide reactions on the positive side
this is a parent accepting their child
this is a supportive book it doesn't
have negative terms in it and the best
question of all what would I do notice
how it's not what you should do it's
asking the question what would I do on
the negative side too young to decide
children do what we tell them to do when
they do it exploitation this woman's
trying to get rich note to self if you
want to get rich don't publish a
children's book
and culturally wrong I'm biracial with
african-american and Caucasian heritage
and in our culture my job is to raise
strong black men but before we go into
any of that that's anecdotal
let's stop going with opinions let's do
something we all understand math let's
take this as an acceptance equation
let's say that every difference equals a
level of discomfort now there's ways
that you can go high level of discomfort
and low level of discomfort but we're
going to measure for that level before
we do this we have to understand why
does difference make us uncomfortable
well it's tribal back in caveman days if
somebody was coming towards you that
look different than you you could have
lost your food your family your life
differences equaled real threat in
caveman days fortunately you realize all
differences
we're equaling lifetime threats and so
basically communities began people
started working together figuring out
how can we make things better let's take
that further okay let's say you want to
walk around in tribal times you are
moving around in a horse and buggy and
you can only go as far as you can see
imagine the people in the horse and
buggy now looking at us as we travel
around in airplanes and let's take it a
little bit further a CEO of a company
white male middle-aged here's Ted Turner
but now we have Xerox we have PepsiCo we
have Yahoo and we have Merck look at all
these different leaders of these
companies and how different they all
look and let's take it one step further
here's Eisenhower and his wife perfect
first couple right and then today our
first african-american president so
basically we see that although
difference equals a level
discomfort it doesn't equal threat
anymore
we have evolved we continue to evolve so
now that we know that that's tribal and
that it's really wired within us to have
this feeling of discomfort when we see
difference
let's now solve for acceptance there are
two questions I think we need to answer
one why am i uncomfortable and is it
harming anyone let's go deeper
of course we're uncomfortable look at
the audience today we don't see men in
dresses we don't see a whole lot of pink
we don't see a whole lot of different
things that would be attributed to the
opposite gender for men so of course
it's uncomfortable then we look at the
history here's a picture of Louis the
15th in the 1770s a portrait of him in a
pink dress here's a picture of FDR in
the 1880s 1930s uniforms for the Air
Force USA are pink shirts and then the
women's movement the social movement
that happened women started going during
World War two to work and stay at work
people were concerned oh my gosh no
one's gonna parent the children
reproduction will end I'm pretty sure
we're still reproducing ok so we know
now why we're uncomfortable let's go -
is it harming anyone well I'm gonna take
you through a few celebrities here's a
sure and some hot pink boots here's a
fashion week that just happened and the
designer had all the models in male
attire male male models in dresses
here's Spike Lee and a leather skirt
Janet Jackson in a suit and tie and we
have P Diddy rocking a concert in a
skirt and Lady gaga dressed as a male
and then we have Marc Jacobs who designs
skirts for men so I ask you did anyone
die from this
was anybody harmed now you may argue
that yes society was harmed we have
serious serious level of discomfort with
this and I ask you to go back to caveman
times did you lose your family were you
threatened this is about acceptance
that's what this is about
our fundamental need of acceptance so
now that we know it's not harming anyone
we need to accept the fact that the male
image is evolving there are different
roles for men and we need to accept them
for who they are now the level of
discomfort will continue with us because
we are wired to feel that difference
equals a level of discomfort but I would
say with acceptance being needed how do
we do this well we become acceptance
champions I believe that the country got
it wrong
all of our organizations all of our
books all of our trainings foundations
we have anti-bullying in the name
why not acceptance why not acceptance
curricula vs. anti-bullying curricula we
are gonna turn this around when we want
to tell someone do something say
something we take it further than the
level of the bystander we go to the
acceptance champion who says hey Asher
nice pink boots that's what we do we
turn the negative to positive
those are acceptance champions and I
guarantee you they are all over we are
all of them it's time for us to stand up
for differences and hopefully we will
learn to embrace those who feel
different are different and express
themselves differently as we come
together we realize that acceptance
champions have conversations and
conversations change society that's a
fact
so what's mine is yours and what's yours
is mine
we have to work together to build this
world of acceptance as I leave I'm
reminded of one of the shortest quotes
in the English language by Muhammad Ali
me we thank you very much